1) What is the Adoption Date of the document?
2) What is the Plan Anniversary?
3) What are the groups of employees covered under the plan?
4) What are the participation eligibility requirements in the plan?
5) What is the participation date after attainment of eligibility in the plan?
6) What is the Age/Service retirement eligibility for normal retirement in the plan?
7) What is the Start Date for normal retirement in the plan?
8) What is the Age/Service retirement eligibility for Early Unreduced benefit retirement in the plan?
9) What is the Age/Service retirement eligibility for Early Reduced benefit retirement in the plan?
10) What is the Start Date for early retirement in the plan?
11) For Deferred vested, not eligible to retire as of date of termination, what is the Age/Service retirement eligibility for normal retirement in the plan?
12) For Deferred vested, not eligible to retire as of date of termination, what is the Age/Service retirement eligibility for early retirement in the plan?
13) What is the retirement eligibility for late retirement in the plan?
14) What is the eligibility requirement for disability under the plan?
15) How the plan defines Eligibility/Participation service?
16) How the plan defines vesting service?
17) How the plan defines benefit service?
18) Does the plan defines other type of service besides eligibility/participation, vesting and benefit service?
19) What is the accrued benefit formula under the plan?
20) What is the Accrual factor in the accrued benefit formula?
21) What is the Short service factor in the accrued benefit formula?
22) What compensation is used in the accrued benefit formula?
23) How the plan defines average compensation to use in the accrued benefit formula?
24) What is the Covered Compensation for Integrated Plans?
25) What is the Primary Insurance Amount (PIA) Offset in the plan?
26) If the plan is a Cash-Balance plan, What is the Initial Account Balance in the plan?
27) If the plan is a Cash-Balance plan, How the the plan defines Benefit Credit in the Cash Balance Account?
28) If the plan is a Cash-Balance plan, How the the plan defines Interest Credit in the Cash Balance Account?
29) If the plan is a Cash-Balance plan, What is the Timing of Interest Credit in the Cash Balance Account?
30) If the plan is a Cash-Balance plan, What is the Annuity Conversion Factor in the Cash Balance Account?
31) If the plan is a Cash-Balance plan, What is the Annuity Conversion Method in the Cash Balance Account?
32) If there are Supplemental Benefits in the plan, What is the eligibility for those?
33) If there are Supplemental Benefits in the plan, What is the amount?
34) If there are Supplemental Benefits in the plan, What is the Duration?
35) What is the Normal Single Form of benefit as defined in the plan?
36) What is the Normal Married Form of benefit as defined in the plan?
37) What is the Basis for Form Conversion Factors as defined in the plan?
38) How the plan calculates the Early Retirement Adjustment?
39) How the plan calculates the Late Retirement Adjustment?
40) What are, if any, the Suspension of Benefit Provisions?
41) What are, if any, the Disability Benefit Provisions?
42) What are, if any, the Pre-Retirement Death Benefits?
43) What are, if any, the Post-Retirement Death Benefits?
44) What is the Vesting Schedule included in the Provisions for Deferred Participants?
45) What is the Cash-out Provisions included in the Provisions for Deferred Participants?
46) What is the One-Year Break In Service included in the Provisions for Deferred Participants?
47) What are the Transfer Provisions defined in the plan?
48) If the plan has Mandatory Employee Contributions (EEC), How the plan defines its Contributions?
49) If the plan has Mandatory Employee Contributions (EEC), How the plan defines its Interest?
50) If the plan has Mandatory Employee Contributions (EEC), What provisions are in place  If EEC Withdrawn?
51) What are the Voluntary Provisions defined in the plan, if any?
52) Was the plan Top-Heavy?
53) Top-Heavy Minimum Benefit applies to key employees in addition to non-key employees?
54) How plan defines Top-Heavy Service?
55) How plan defines Top-Heavy Average Compensation?
56) How plan defines Top-Heavy Minimum Benefit Formula?
57) How plan defines Top-Heavy Vesting?
58) How plan defines Default Actuarial Equivalence?
59) How plan defines Consensual Lump Sum Provisions?
60) Are there any Additional Provisions of Note?
61) What are the Names Of Majority Owners, if any?
